Overview
--------

This project provides a new family of collections.

Installation
------------

To install ``namings``, you can use ``pip``.
Open your terminal and run:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install namings

Features
--------

``namings.abc``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``class namings.abc.BaseNamingABC.BaseNamingABC[Value](data: SupportsKeysAndGetitem[Value] | Iterable[tuple[object, Value]] = (), /, **kwargs: Value)``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``__contains__(other: object, /) -> bool``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This magic method implements ``other in self``.
Here, it establishes a standard for all descendent classes.
It should only ever be overwritten with an extensional equivalent.

.. code-block:: python

    def __contains__(self: Self, other: Any, /) -> bool:
        return other in self.items()

``__eq__(other: object, /) -> types.NotImplementedType | bool``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This magic method implements ``self == other``.
Here, it establishes a standard for all descendent classes.
It should only ever be overwritten with an extensional equivalent.

.. code-block:: python

    def __eq__(
        self: Self,
        other: object,
        /,
    ) -> types.NotImplementedType | bool:
        if isinstance(other, BaseNamingABC):
            return bool(tuple(self) == tuple(other))
        else:
            return NotImplemented

``__ge__(other: object, /) -> types.NotImplementedType | bool``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This magic method implements ``self >= other``.
Here, it establishes a standard for all descendent classes.
It should only ever be overwritten with an extensional equivalent.

.. code-block:: python

    def __ge__(
        self: Self,
        other: object,
        /,
    ) -> types.NotImplementedType | bool:
        if isinstance(other, BaseNamingABC):
            return bool(tuple(self) >= tuple(other))
        else:
            return NotImplemented

``__getitem__(key: object, /) -> Value``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This abstract magic method implements ``self[key]``.

``__gt__(other: object, /) -> types.NotImplementedType | bool``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This magic method implements ``self > other``.
Here, it establishes a standard for all descendent classes.
It should only ever be overwritten with an extensional equivalent.

.. code-block:: python

    def __gt__(
        self: Self,
        other: object,
        /,
    ) -> types.NotImplementedType | bool:
        if isinstance(other, BaseNamingABC):
            return bool(tuple(self) > tuple(other))
        else:
            return NotImplemented

``__iter__() -> Iterator[tuple[str, Value]]``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

.. code-block:: python

    def __iter__(self: Self) -> Iterable[tuple[str, Value]]:
        return iter(self.items())

``__le__(other: object, /) -> types.NotImplementedType | bool``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This magic method implements ``self <= other``.
Here, it establishes a standard for all descendent classes.
It should only ever be overwritten with an extensional equivalent.

.. code-block:: python

    def __le__(
        self: Self,
        other: object,
        /,
    ) -> types.NotImplementedType | bool:
        if isinstance(other, BaseNamingABC):
            return bool(tuple(self) <= tuple(other))
        else:
            return NotImplemented

``__len__() -> int``
""""""""""""""""""""

.. code-block:: python

    def __len__(self: Self) -> int:
        return len(self.items())

``__lt__(other: object, /) -> types.NotImplementedType | bool``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This magic method implements ``self < other``.
Here, it establishes a standard for all descendent classes.
It should only ever be overwritten with an extensional equivalent.

.. code-block:: python

    def __lt__(
        self: Self,
        other: object,
        /,
    ) -> types.NotImplementedType | bool:
        if isinstance(other, BaseNamingABC):
            return bool(tuple(self) < tuple(other))
        else:
            return NotImplemented

``__ne__(other: object, /) -> types.NotImplementedType | bool``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This magic method implements ``self != other``.
Here, it establishes a standard for all descendent classes.
It should only ever be overwritten with an extensional equivalent.

.. code-block:: python

    def __ne__(
        self: Self,
        other: object,
        /,
    ) -> types.NotImplementedType | bool:
        if isinstance(other, BaseNamingABC):
            return bool(tuple(self) != tuple(other))
        else:
            return NotImplemented

``__or__(BaseNamingABC[Value], /) -> Self``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This abstract magic method implements ``self | other``.

``__repr__() -> str``
"""""""""""""""""""""

This magic method implements ``repr(self)``.
It may be overwritten as needed.

.. code-block:: python

    def __repr__(self: Self) -> str:
        return f"{type(self).__name__}({dict(self)})"

``__reversed__() -> Iterable[tuple[str, Value]]``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This magic method implements ``reversed(self)``.
Here, it establishes a standard for all descendent classes.
It should only ever be overwritten with an extensional equivalent.

.. code-block:: python

    @setdoc.basic
    def __reversed__(self: Self) -> Iterable[tuple[str, Value]]:
        return reversed(self.items())

``get(key: object, default: Optional[Value_] = None, /) -> Optional[Value | Value_]``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This method returns the value under the given ``key`` if present,
otherwise it returns ``default``
Here, it establishes a standard for all descendent classes.
It should only ever be overwritten with an extensional equivalent.

.. code-block:: python

    def get(self: Self, key: object, default: Any = None, /) -> Any:
        "This method returns the value for an existing key or default for a not existing key."
        try:
            return self[key]
        except KeyError:
            return default

``keys() -> Sequence[str, ...]``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``items(self: Self) -> Sequence[tuple[str, Value], ...]``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``values(self: Self) -> Sequence[Value, ...]``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``class namings.abc.FrozenNamingABC.FrozenNamingABC[Value](data: SupportsKeysAndGetitem[Value] | Iterable[tuple[object, Value]] = (), /, **kwargs: Value)``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This class inherits from ``BaseNamingABC[Value]`` and ``collections.abc.Hashable``.

``class namings.abc.NamingABC.NamingABC[Value](data: SupportsKeysAndGetitem[Value] | Iterable[tuple[object, Value]] = (), /, **kwargs: Value)``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``__delitem__(key: object, /) -> None``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``__hash__: Any = None``
""""""""""""""""""""""""

``__ior__(other: BaseNamingABC[Value], /) -> Self``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``__setitem__(key: object, value: Value, /) -> None``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``clear() -> None``
"""""""""""""""""""

``pop(key: object, /) -> Value`` ``pop(key: object, default: Value_, /) -> Value | Value_``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``setdefault(key: object, default: Value, /) -> Value``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``update(data: SupportsKeysAndGetitem[Value] | Iterable[tuple[object, Value]] = (), /, **kwargs: Value) -> None``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``namings.core``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The classes in this submodule can also be imported directly from ``namings``.

``class namings.core.BaseNamingABC.BaseNamingABC[Value](data: SupportsKeysAndGetitem[Value] | Iterable[tuple[object, Value]] = (), /, **kwargs: Value)``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This abstract base class is a common ancestor of ``FrozenNaming`` and ``Naming``.

``keys() -> tuple[str, ...]``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``items(self: Self) -> tuple[tuple[str, Value], ...]``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``values(self: Self) -> tuple[Value, ...]``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``class namings.core.FrozenNaming.FrozenNaming[Value](data: SupportsKeysAndGetitem[Value] | Iterable[tuple[object, Value]] = (), /, **kwargs: Value)``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This immutable class is a type of collection

- that coerces keys to be strings
- and that acts similarly to a sequence of its items.

``class namings.core.Naming.Naming[Value](data: SupportsKeysAndGetitem[Value] | Iterable[tuple[object, Value]] = (), /, **kwargs: Value)``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This mutable class is a type of collection

- that coerces keys to be strings
- and that acts similarly to a sequence of its items.

``namings.tests``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``namings.tests.test()``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This project can be tested through its ``test`` function.

.. code-block:: python

    import namings.tests
    namings.tests.test()

``namings.typing``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``class namings.typing.SupportsKeysAndGetitem.SupportsKeysAndGetitem[Value]``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This protocol is used for typing.

``__getitem__(key: object, /) -> Value``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``keys() -> Iterable[object]``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

License
-------

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Links
-----

- Download: https://pypi.org/project/namings/#files
- Index: https://pypi.org/project/namings/
- Source: https://github.com/johannes-programming/namings/
- Website: https://namings.johannes-programming.online/

Impressum
---------

**Johannes Programming**

- Name: Johannes
- Email: johannes.programming@gmail.com
- Homepage: https://www.johannes-programming.online/
- Gravatar: https://www.johannes-programming.fyi/
